---
title: "First Thoughts on Essay Project"
description: "Jason yappin'"
author: "Jason Cook"
date: "2026-03-24"
categories: [General, Journal, Introduction]
---

This is a project that I've been wanting to do for a while. I feel like I'm constantly wanting to write my thoughts down, and I feel like organizing them in a blog is the best way to do this, as well as work on my web dev skills along the way (which are currently non-existent). I want to write essays on topics such as general thoughts in almost a tweet style nature, thoughts on politics, thoughts on religion, thoughts on something that I find interesting that week, thoughts on a conversation that I had with a stranger, updates on the progress that I've been making in my life, updates on Olivia's life, logging recipes that we like, keeping track of workouts that we are doing, writing short stories, writing down lyrics to songs I want to do -- I can go on and on. I  just want to have a space where I can organize my thoughts.

I don't really know why I want to do this. I have always found writing things down to be fun and therapeutic, and I think that it will be nice to recount stuff that I've been doing in my life later. I think the end goal would be to share this website with friends and family, and have them be able to comment and write their own essays in response or as standalone papers or SOMETHING here, but for now, this is a personal space. Also, I just simply don't know how to do that yet.

Today is 3/24/2026. I am currently at work in an uncommonly un-busy time starting this blog, and I'm trying to make myself look busy by typing this up really fast. I am 25 years old, about to turn 26 on April 5th, I am a statistician at Pentara, I live in Salt Lake City with my wife Olivia. Right now the best things in my life are my wonderful wife, my house which we bought in November of last year and have been fixing it up for the last few months, my job which I have actually come to like quite a bit with how challenging it is, my friends who I hang out with often to play games and disc golf and go to dinner with, my family who I'm going to meet this weekend when I go to meet Olivia in California, and finally, my arriving child that Olivia and I just found out about and still haven't told anybody about. Everything is looking up Jason. My life is very great. I don't have very many problems, and I truly look forward to each day right now and have very little complaints.

I guess to counteract that paragraph, my biggest problems in life are how demanding my job is, which I think is mostly in my head because I sometimes don't give myself enough slack to be dumb, my body which I think is too overweight and unhealthy for where I am in life, and my addiction to my phone (especially and specifically YouTube). I will also add that the thing that one of the things that I think I don't like the most about myself and that I want/need to work on is my dishonest side. I don't think I'm a very honest person, or at least not as honest as I'd like to be. I often cheated in school, exaggerated to get jobs, fibbed to sell used items for a bit more, and I constantly find myself doing little lies/exaggerations to tell a grander, more interesting story to my friends and family. I know that these are normal, relatable things to say, but I really do wish I was more honest and genuine in my actions, as I would hope that everybody in the world would be. I also feel like I have generally weak opinions on a lot of topics, mostly due to a quality that I actually LIKE about myself of being able to see both sides of things better than most people, but it is definitely annoying to others when you are constantly playing devil's advocate.

I'm sure I'm missing some things about what the best and worst things of me are, and I don't really have a structure to this opening essay. I guess I figure that my audience much in the future will be people that want to know a little more about me, and my thoughts on myself and what the extremes of my life are will hopefully give a better picture to that than just telling you the shallow facts of my life, like my job and where I live. I used to do this a lot when I journaled consistently -- just sharing my thoughts in a stream of consciousness style way, and I think I've lost a lot of that lately. I'm going on autopilot, probably because my life is so good and easy right now. I want to be more thoughtful, and I want to write down moments or feelings that I have. I also don't want to make this first introductory essay too long. So bye, hopefully I write more!





